Sentinel 1 Stats UDP ported to APEX (#36)
ESA-APEx/apex_algorithms: algorithm_catalog/sentinel1_stats/sentinel1_stats_description.md

# Description

> This algorithm derive statistical insights a Sentinel-1 GRD collection for a selected area and temporal extent. 

Reviewer: some typo's here I think

```suggestion
This algorithm derives statistical insights from Sentinel-1 GRD data for a selected area and temporal extent. 
```

It computes statistical metrics (e.g., mean, minimum, and maximum backscatter) by using the openEO processes.

> Overall, the workflow is cloud-based geospatial processing services to extract useful statistics from large Earth observation datasets efficiently.

Reviewer: Also some typo's here

Overall there is quite some redundancy between the three sentences of this paragraph, they all say basically "we extract stats from EO data"

Reviewer: Also, shouldn't the description clarify that this is about *temporal* statistics (stats along time dimension)?

# Performance characteristics

> The process is implemented in Python and uses the openEO Python client to interact with the openEO backend.

Reviewer: Python is irrelevant here I think: the process graph is fully defined as openEO JSON, without any trace of Python

> The process uses both the "VH", "VV" polarization bands to compute the statistical metrics. In the workflow, `sigma0-ellipsoid` has been applied to the raw sar data to quantify the backscatter intensity. 

Reviewer: This sentence just describes the algorithm, but has nothing to do with performance I think

# Examples

The image below shows a Raw Sentinel 1 GRD data for a selected region.

![s1_raw](sentinel1_raw.png)

Similarly, the image below shows the statistical insights derived from the Sentinel 1 GRD data.

> ![s1_stats](mean.png)

Reviewer: I think it's confusing that you show only VH (I think) in the raw data, while showing VH and VV in the "mean" plot.
Also note that the labels on the y axis are different, making the comparison even more confusing

For a slightly larger extent:

> ![s1_stats](mean2.png)

Reviewer: I'm not sure this "larger extent" example adds a lot of value.

I think what would be more interesting is to show something else than "mean" as statistic
